# Prototyping software report:
In this report I am going to be looking at multiple different prototyping tools available which provide a variation between both high and low fidelity. My evaluation of the tools is going to look at aspects such as cost, accessibility as well as the quality of the prototypes that can be produced through the use of these tools.
### Pigendo:
Pigendo is a software that is used to primarily design web page prototypes. Pigendo is a downloadable application that can be installed onto your system. The main benefit or advantage of this application is that it is free to use meaning that if a low budget company need an application to design web page prototypes then this is perfect. Another huge benefit of this application is that it supports Linux unlike some other applications which only support windows or MAC OSX.
Although this application is free which Is a huge benefit, it has its restrictions such as the fact that its primary role is to create web page prototypes. This could be negative if that isn’t the main goal of using the software. If you’re looking to create web page prototypes, then this application is good because it is very simple and easy to use with an intuitive user interface. If you are looking for a more well-rounded prototyping tool, then this application probably is not best to use. 
### Balsamiq:
Balsamiq is a prototyping tool which is available as a downloadable application for Windows and MAC OSX as well as a web tool. Balsamiq is a subscription-based application of $9 per month or $89 a year alternatively. The main purpose of this application is to help users create low fidelity wireframes. The application does this through its use of pre-packaged templates. These templates help give users ideas or inspiration which in turn allows them to design and build faster on this application than some others.
As mentioned above the main downside is that the application itself is a subscription service which already gives it a disadvantage over the previous software (Pigendo). Users are able to use a free trial to make sure that the application would be something that they want to use. For a company with a decent budget, the cost would not be too much of an issue however for a user who is designing independently then it might be more of an issue.
### Proto.io
Prot.io is a prototyping tool which is used to create high fidelity prototypes with the use of a wide range of high-quality detailed tools. Proto.io also allows for users to create semi-working prototypes which can be interacted with. Proto.io is a downloadable application for both Windows and MAC OSX. The main advantage that proto.io has over the other 2 applications we have looked at is that it can be used to prototype for virtually anything. The features and functions of this application allow for users to create a much higher quality prototype which can in turn translate into helping your fellow design team or even investors get a better understanding for your vision.
The main downside with is like Balsamiq, this application is a subscription-based program. Users are required to pay a monthly fee or an annual fee for the use of this software. Although this software is subscription based, it has an advantage over Balsamiq as it gives users the option for different subscription packages. Proto.io only allows users to have a certain number of projects saved at one time, meaning if you want more projects then you will need to pay more for a better package to gain access to more saves. The lowest subscription is 5 projects for $24 a month and the highest package comes in at $160 a month however this package allows up to 10 people to access the saved projects and you will now have a total of 30 projects available.
### Evaluation:
The goal of this report was to take a look at some prototyping software’s available to the public and evaluate each of them to see which is best. After researching each application, I can safely say that the winner or best prototyping software is proto.io. This is because the application does not have many restrictions on what you can design/make. It also has a huge advantage over the other two, this being that the prototypes can be interactive. The biggest downside to this application is that it is the most expensive however if you want a professional application to create professional looking prototypes then I feel the monthly or annual cost of this application is worth it. The main buyers for this application would be businesses anyway which means that the funding might not be too much of an issue, even for a small time company.
