## End User Categorisation:
An End user is someone who is going to use the final product that you are creating or designing. There are 4 set categories of end users; Novice, Knowledgeable, Expert and Disability. Each category of end user will help determine certain features within your design process.
### Novice:
A novice is an individual which has very little to no experience with the technology of your application. Designing an application or anything for a novice user will require more work as you will need to be able to provide tips or feedback for that user so they can understand what they are doing as well as what they have done. Some applications may also have little tutorials built-in to guide these types of users.
Novice users have a smaller attention span due to their lack of understanding, this means that when you’re building your application, you will need to make sure that you’re not asking too much of the user otherwise they may become overwhelmed and choose not to use your application. This is why it is important to provide tips and or show users how to work specific features in order to keep user retention.
### Knowledgeable:
A knowledgeable user is someone who has a basic understanding for the technical aspects of your application however they are not quite able to grasp every aspect available. These types of users are in the middle of the range in terms of understanding. When designing for these types of users, you are able to assume that they know the very basics, meaning they won’t need the tips or tutorials that novice users may need. These users are able to complete simple tasks and keep their attention on the application for a decent amount of time before needing assistance.
A knowledgeable user will still need some assistance in order to complete some more skilled or challenging tasks within the application. When designing and creating your application you will still need to incorporate a way for this type of user to gain assistance without being fully spoon fed like a novice user. You may need to still provide instructions, but it is also important to not overwhelm the user with too many otherwise they may grow intolerant to this and decide to not use the software again.
### Expert:
An expert user is an individual with a clear and solid understanding of the technical aspects and the basics of your application. These users will usually have a good understanding of computer systems in general. When designing for an expert user, it is a lot easier and simpler as you won’t necessarily need to include all of the help and tutorials that a knowledgeable user or a novice user would need. This means that theoretically you can let this form of user get on unattended. Expert users wont need all the guidance so it is best to not smother them with all the guidance otherwise they may grow irritated by this.
Expert users will also be looking to find ways to make their production quicker. This means it is important to make ways or incorporate ways for users to streamline some features. A very common way of doing this is by allowing keyboard shortcuts or macros to do a range of commands or tasks at the push of a button. It is not a mandatory feature however a lot of expert users will prefer these methods in order to get tasks done quicker.
### Disability:
The last category is for users who classify as disabled. Users are placed into this category if they have a physical or mental impairment which restricts their usability or accessibility of the application that you’re designing. Users who are placed in this category will find some features more difficult to process or complete.
A very common form of disability would be colour-blindness which means that the user is not able to distinguish between two colours. When designing your application, you should make sure to accommodate for this by keeping the two main colours, red and green away from each other in the design if possible.
